# SmartGarbageCollector

A developing overpopulated country like India has many challenges when it comes to garbage collection in housing societies and other public places. Garbage bins remain uncollected for long periods of time putting the lives of people who live or work near these places at risk, in an event that there is Cholera outbreak especially during the rainy season. This happens because the general garbage collection squad does not have a system that monitors the garbage levels or estimates which area has high wastage output that results in faster filling of dustbins ins that area. 

  In order to avoid such a situation, this project proposes the design and implementation of a Smart Garbage and Waste Overflow Management System using GPS and GSM technology for providing real time information on the status of the garbage bins, i.e. when they are nearly filled so that appropriate action can be carried out. The system notifies the people in charge of garbage collection by telling them where the bin is exactly located. Again, after the message has been sent, the vehicle is provided with the route that is shortest to the bins that need to be collected. This development will ultimately save a lot of time especially when the garbage collector does not have to go and check the level of garbage in the bin manually. Besides, it will prevent the overflow of garbage due to the fact that garbage will be collected on time. This is not a system that replaces the entire collection system that used to collect the garbage over the years rather it would just add few vehicles that would be used only when nearby bins overflow. This report contains the proposed system its methodology, design and results from our tests.  
 
Entire Documentation: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gvh3OJhK_Sv1WrF2nizEEniXffi45ntk1fha9V7Dlng/edit?usp=sharing
